"Hello there! Welcome to the world of Pokémon! My name is Oak! People call me the Pokémon Prof! This world is inhabited by creatures called Pokémon! For some people, Pokémon are pets. Other use them for fights. Myself… I study Pokémon as a profession. First, what is your name? Right! So your name is <player>! This is my grandson. He's been your rival since you were a baby. …Erm, what is his name again? That's right! I remember now! His name is <rival>! <player>! Your very own Pokémon legend is about to unfold! A world of dreams and adventures with Pokémon awaits! Let's go!"

After taking a course in Machine Learning, I felt it would be best create my own project to solidify what I learned. So I looked on Kaggle and eventually landed on this dataset. It piqued my interest as I spent much of my youth playing various Pokemon games and watching the television series. With the dataset discovered, I thought of possible questions which I felt could be answered using it. Starting off simple, I wanted to answer, "Can I predict the type of a Pokemon given the moves it will learn?" This was fairly straight-forward, as generally the type most often present as it levels up is the Pokemon's type (i.e. grass-type Pokemon will have many grass-type moves).

My second goal was definitely more complex. I wanted to create a model to decide which move would be best in a Pokemon battle. I consider this part more complex as there are many more factors for the model to consider, such as our Pokemon's type, the opponent Pokemon type, and possible moves at our disposal. However, when it comes down to it, the model just has to memorize the Pokemon type chart which itself can be described as an advanced rock-paper-scissors.

My final goal was to create a model which could fight Pokemon battles for me. That is, it could switch Pokemon out, choose optimal moves, and continue battling until the battle is over. This was my stretch goal, and while I have not achieved it yet, I may come back to this project at a later time to finish what I have started.

For those who are unfamiliar with Pokemon, This[https://pokemondb.net/type] is the Pokemon type chart. All Pokemon and Pokemon moves have assigned types such as fire, grass, bug, or ghost to name a few. To do the most damage, we want to choose the move which does the best against the opposing Pokemon's type. That is, if the opposing Pokemon is a fire-type, we want to use a water-type move as it will do double damage against fire-types. On the other hand, we do not want to use a ice-type move as it will do half damage to the fire-type. To achieve the highest accuracy, our model will figure out this chart and be able to choose the optimal move given the situation it is in. That is to say, our Pokemon may not always have water-type moves against a fire-type Pokemon. In the situation that our Pokemon has the option of choosing an electric-type move or an ice-type move against the fire-type, the model should be able to recognize the electric-type will do 100% damage while the ice-type move will only do 50%. And if our Pokemon is in the same situation but only has electric-type moves, it should choose the move with the highest power. And finally, in the situation that our Pokemon has an electric-move with 50 power and a ice-type move with 120 power, it should choose the ice-type move as it would be equivalent to an electric-move with 60 power.

With all these factors at play, a good model is necessary to facilitate the best learning experience. I thought of a couple ways to achieve such a goal. My first thought was to create a neural net. However, I felt this would not be adaptable to the sequential nature of the Pokemon battles, which is necessary if I expanded the capabilities of the model to achieve the final goal. The other option was using reinforcement learning. I felt this was a good solution as it would support sequential decision-making, plus I could reward the model for the damage it deals, and it could figure out the rest. I looked into various libraries and decided to use TensorFlow, something I have been meaning to learn for a while now.